Graduate Courses Taught at Brooklyn College

CBSE 7677: Curriculum Modifications for Teaching Students with Special Needs (Instructor and Course Convenor)
This course focuses on adapting general education curriculum for students with special needs in inclusive classrooms. Teacher candidates learn to modify instruction, materials, and assessments to meet diverse learning needs while maintaining high academic standards.



CBSE 7680: Research Methods in Special Education
This research-focused course introduces teacher candidates to qualitative and quantitative research methodologies in special education. Students develop skills in critically analyzing research and designing small-scale research projects.

Seminar in Applied Theory and Research (CBSE 7657T). Continuation of the study of educational research and methodology and completion of an independent research project related to an area of special education.

CBSE 7678: Literacy Instruction for Students with Special Needs (Instructor and Course Convener)
This course focuses on evidence-based literacy instruction for students with disabilities. Teacher candidates learn strategies for teaching reading, writing, and language skills to diverse learners.

CBSE 7681: Special Education Student Teaching Seminar
This seminar accompanies student teaching experiences, providing support and guidance as teacher candidates apply their knowledge in classroom settings. Emphasis is placed on reflective practice and professional development.

Undergraduate Courses Taught at Brooklyn College

CBSE 3456/7674: Inclusive Education and Teaching Students with Special Needs
This introductory course provides undergraduate students with foundational knowledge about inclusive education and strategies for supporting students with disabilities in general education settings.

SPCL 3200: Assistive Technology for Students with Disabilities (Instructor and. Course Convener)
Students will gain an understanding of the Augmentative and Alternative Technology (AAC) and other Assistive Technology (AT) available for classroom and community use. Students will gain abilities related to combining the use of AT in instructional design and delivery approaches in the classroom.  Students will learn about Universal Design for Learning and how this can be enhanced with knowledge of AT and AAC.  This course will provide students with foundations of inclusion and how to gain more information about ways to make their teaching accessible to all students. 




