
Invited Presentations 

Dembek, G. A. (2019) Webinar: Talk alouds: Incorporating instruction and systematic practice routines for students with special needs during problem solving https://courses.precisionteachinguniversity.com/courses/talk-alouds-incorporating-instruction-and-systematic-practice-routines-for-students-with-special-needs-during-problem-solving 2019

Fall 2017 Guest Lecturer: Differentiation for Diverse Learners with Disabilities (SPCED 2051). New York University. Foundations of Curriculum for Diverse Learners (Graduate Students). 

Dembek, G.A. (2015, July). An examination of fluent thinking skills: Developing research in academic content.  Invited paper presentation at the meeting of the Northeastern Federation for Precision Teaching Conference, Pittsburgh, PA. 

Dembek, G.A. (Accepted 2013, April). The effect of talk aloud instruction on problem solving skills: Evaluating fluency and content in science text.  Invited paper presentation at the meeting of the Science Education for Students with Disabilities (SESD) Annual Conference, San Antonio, TX.

Spring 2013 Guest Lecturer: Co-teaching panel presentation (SPLED 404).  Penn State University. Working with Families and Professionals in Special Education (Undergraduate Students).

Spring 2013 Guest Lecturer: Behavioral Fluency for Reading (SPLED 409A).  Penn State University (Undergraduate and Graduate Students).

Fall 2012 Guest Lecturer: Classroom Interventions for Students with Severe Disabilities (SPLED 411).  Penn State University (Undergraduate Students). 

Spring 2012 Guest Lecturer: Classroom Interventions for Students with Severe Disabilities (SPLED 411).  Penn State University (Undergraduate Students).

Fall 2011 Guest Lecturer (SPLED 411).  Penn State University (Graduate and Undergraduate Students).

Fall 2009 Guest Lecturer: Observing in Exceptional Settings (SPLED 395W).  Penn State University (Undergraduate Students).
	

Conference Presentations

Dembek, G. A., Lee, Y. J, & Kyprianou, S. (November, 2024). Building an evidence-based special education program to fit the needs of New York City schools and students. Teacher Education Division Conference of Council for Exceptional Children. Refereed paper presentation accepted at annual meeting in Pittsburgh, PA.

Dembek, G. A., Lee, Y. J, & Kyprianou, S. (Accepted, 2024). Creating an Undergraduate Special Education Program for Students in New York City. NYSATE/NYACTE  Refereed paper presentation accepted at annual meeting in Saratoga Springs, NY.

Lauterbach, M.D., & Dembek, G. A. (2024). Implementation of a dynamic home-based reading intervention for students in the foster care system. American Education Research Association. Refereed Paper accepted at the annual meeting in Philadelphia, PA.

Dembek, G. A., Lee, Y. J, & Kyprianou, S. (2024). Building an evidence-based, innovative, special education program to fit the needs of New York City schools and students. CUNY Education Conference. Refereed paper presentation accepted at annual virtual conference.

Dembek, G. A., & Lauterbach, M. D. (2023). Development and changes in a literacy tutoring program for system-involved youth: Year four. Refereed Paper accepted at the 30th annual meeting of the Society of Scientific Studies of Reading Conference.  Port Douglas, Australia. 

Lauterbach, M. D., & Dembek, G. A. (2022). A sustainable literacy tutoring program for children in foster care: Year three. Refereed Paper accepted at the 29th annual meeting of the Society of Scientific Studies of Reading Conference.  Newport Beach, CA.

Lauterbach,  M. D., & Dembek, G. A. (2022).  Incorporating fluency and practice routines for students in foster care. Refereed paper presented at the New England Educational Research Organization Annual Conference. Portsmouth, NH.

Dembek, G. A., & Lauterbach, M. D. (2021). Creating a dynamic literacy tutoring system for students in foster care. Refereed Paper accepted at the International Dyslexia Association Virtual Conference. 	
Lauterbach, M. D., & Dembek, G. A. (2021). Transforming a data-based Tutoring Program in Literacy to a virtual environment. Refereed Paper presented at the 28th annual meeting of the Society of Scientific Studies of Reading Virtual Conference.

Lauterbach, M. D., & Dembek, G. A. Kubina, R. M. (2020). Developing a sustainable literacy tutoring program for children in foster care. In Hogan, T. (Chair) Contextualizing the science of reading II- Considering implementation to address reading in vulnerable student populations.  Refereed Symposium accepted at the 27th annual meeting of the Society of Scientific Studies of Reading Canceled due to pandemic.

Lauterbach, M. D., Miles, K. P., Dembek, G. A., Murano, D., & Tabone, F. (2019, July). Beyond the IEP: Using Machine learning to identify groupings of special needs learners.  Refereed Poster presented at the 26th annual meeting of the Society for the Scientific Studies of Reading. Toronto, Canada.

Pace Miles, K., Lauterbach, M., Murano, D., & Dembek, G.A. (2018).  Reading Rescue: A follow up on the effectiveness of an intervention program.  Refereed Poster Presentation at the Society for the Scientific Study of Reading, Brighton, UK. 

Lauterbach, M., Pace Miles, K., Tabone, F., Dembek, G.A., Murano, D., & Aspromonte, J. (2018).  Developmental reading trajectories for students with special needs. Refereed Poster Presentation at Society for the Scientific Study of Reading, Brighton, UK. 

Datchuk, S.M., Dembek, G.A. (2018, February).  Tertiary levels of support: Improving the sentence-level writing skills of students with learning disabilities.  Refereed poster Presentation at Council for Exceptional Children Convention & Expo, Tampa, Florida.

Dembek, G.A. (2017, May).  The effects of the talk aloud problem-solving instructional package on statement and problem solving fluency.  In S. M. Datchuk (Chair), Achieving fluency with academic behaviors: Procedures and results from three intervention studies on reading and writing. Refereed Symposium conducted at the meeting of the Association for Applied Behavior Analysts International Conference, Denver, CO. 

Dembek, G.A. (2016, May).  Think aloud problem solving: Research in reading and content area skills.  Refereed paper presented at the Association for Applied Behavior Analysts International Conference, Chicago, IL.

Dembek, G.A. (2015, December). Fluent thinking skills: Research in reading and content area skills.  Refereed Paper presented at the International Precision Teaching Conference, St. Pete Beach, FL.

Dembek, G.A. (Waitlisted 2015, April). Teaching problem solving language to students 	in the area of science with reading difficulties and disabilities.  Refereed paper presented at the International Council for Exceptional Children Conference, San Diego, CA. 

Dembek, G.A., & Kostewicz, D.E., Melroe, K., Kubina, R.M. (2014, December). Training classroom teachers to implement evidenced-based instructional technologies. Refereed Conference Panel Presentation at the International Precision Teaching Conference, Chicago, IL.

Dembek, G.A., & Kubina, R.M. (2014, December). Talk aloud problem solving: An exploration of acquisition and frequency building for students with learning disabilities.  Paper presented at the International Precision Teaching Conference, St. Pete Beach, FL.

Dembek, G.A. (2013, May). Effect of talk aloud problem solving using science text: Evaluating fluency for students at-risk for and with learning disabilities.  Refereed Conference Poster presented at the meeting of the Association for Applied Behavior Analysts International Conference, Minneapolis, MN.

Dembek, G.A. (2012, December). The effect of talking aloud on problem solving using expository text: An evaluation of fluency measures. Refereed paper presented at the meeting of the Standard Celeration Society International, Chicago, IL.

Dembek, G.A. (2012, March). Measuring the effect of talking aloud on problem solving using expository text: An evaluation of fluency measures. The Behavior Analysis Research Colloquium (BARC) Presentation, University Park, PA.

Culler, E., Dembek, G.A., Datchuk, S.M., & Kubina, R.M. (2011, May). Effects of practicing passage retell to a fluency criterion to increase summarization. Refereed paper presented at the meeting of the Association for Applied Behavior Analysts International, Denver, CO. 

Dembek, G.A. (2011, April).  What are the effects of a think aloud procedure on reading comprehension? The Behavior Analysis Research Colloquium (BARC) Presentation, University Park, PA.

Lee, D.L., Dembek, G.A., Datchuk, & S.M., Nimick, A. (2010, May).  The Applied Behavior Analysis Program at Penn State: University Park. Poster Presentation at the meeting of the Association of Applied Behavioral Analysis International, San Antonio, TX.

